PRODDOCS-536: Editorial cleanup on GitLab page (#8858)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab.md

Reviewer: This screenshot is outdated as well. What do you think of removing this altogether and add a description instead? I think we can describe what's in the authorization pop up instead so we don't have to maintain a lot of screenshots. For example: "Click **Authorize** to allow dbt to use your GitLab account."

Reviewer: To make this page easier to follow, I suggest we use numbered steps for each action required. For example:
1. In Gitlab, navigate to your group settings and select **Applications**. Here you'll see a form to create a new application.
2. When creating your Group application, input the following:
3. Click **Save application** in GitLab, and GitLab will then generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values remain available if you close the app screen, so you can return to copy them later.

Reviewer: Labeling this as step 5 since it's the next step after Line 36
```suggestion
5. When you click **Link**, you will be redirected to GitLab and prompted to sign into your account. GitLab will then ask for your explicit authorization:
```

Reviewer: Outdated screenshot -- how about we describe the pop up instead?

Connecting your GitLab account to <Constant name="dbt" /> provides convenience and another layer of security to <Constant name="dbt" />:
- Import new GitLab repos with a couple of clicks during <Constant name="dbt" /> project setup.
- Clone repos using HTTPS rather than SSH.

> - Carry GitLab user permissions through to <Constant name="dbt" /> and <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI git actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Carry GitLab user permissions through to <Constant name="dbt" /> and <Constant name="platform_cli" /> git actions.
```

You must have a [GitLab Premium or Ultimate account](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/).

:::

Depending on your plan, use these steps to integrate GitLab with <Constant name="dbt" />:
- For the Developer or Starter plans, follow these [instructions](#for-dbt-developer-and-starter-plans).
- For the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plans, follow these [instructions](#for-the-dbt-enterprise-plans).

## For dbt Developer and Starter plans

Before you can work with GitLab repositories in <Constant name="dbt" />, you’ll need to connect your GitLab account to your user profile. This allows <Constant name="dbt" /> to authenticate your actions when interacting with Git repositories. Make sure to read the [requirements and limitations](#requirements-and-limitations) of the Starter and Developer plans before you connect your account.

To connect your GitLab account:
1. From <Constant name="dbt" />, click on your account name in the left-side menu and select **Account settings**.
2. Select **Personal profile** under the **Your profile** section.

> 3. Scroll down to **Linked accounts**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Go to **Linked accounts**.
```

4. Click **Link** to the right of your GitLab account.

> 5. In GitLab, when an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.

Reviewer: The previous version says: "you will be redirected to GitLab and prompted to sign into your account. GitLab will then ask for your explicit authorization:" This revised step removes the action to sign in to the GitLab account.

> 5. When you click **Link**, you will be redirected to GitLab and prompted to sign into your account. GitLab will then ask for your explicit authorization:

Reviewer: This was reverted to the original version even without the screenshot that the last sentence introduces (`GitLab will then ask for your explicit authorization:`). I suggest we use something like:

5. In Gitlab, sign in to your account. When an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.

Before you can work with GitLab repositories in <Constant name="dbt" />, you’ll need to connect your GitLab account to your user profile. This allows <Constant name="dbt" /> to authenticate your actions when interacting with Git repositories. Make sure to read the [requirements and limitations](#requirements-and-limitations) of the Starter and Developer plans before you connect your account.

To connect your GitLab account:
1. From <Constant name="dbt" />, click on your account name in the left side menu and select **Account settings**. 
1. From <Constant name="dbt" />, click on your account name in the left-side menu and select **Account settings**.
2. Select **Personal profile** under the **Your profile** section.
3. Scroll down to **Linked accounts**.
4. Click **Link** to the right of your GitLab account.
5. In GitLab, when an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connecting-github/github-connect.png" title="The Personal profile settings with the Linked Accounts section of the user profile"/>

Reviewer: Since this was removed, the image should be deleted as well

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/connecting-github/github-connect.png" title="The Personal profile settings with the Linked Accounts section of the user profile"/>

Reviewer: github-connect.png is not yet deleted

:::info
When configuring the repository in <Constant name="dbt" />, GitLab automatically:
- Registers a webhook that triggers pipeline jobs in <Constant name="dbt" />.
- Creates a [project access token](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html) in your GitLab repository, which sends the job run status back to GitLab using the <Constant name="dbt" /> API for CI jobs. <Constant name="dbt" /> automatically refreshes this token for you.

Requires a [GitLab Premium or Ultimate account](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/).

:::

Depending on your plan, use these steps to integrate GitLab in <Constant name="dbt" />:

> - The Developer or Starter plans, read these [instructions](#for-dbt-developer-and-starter-plans).

Author: ```suggestion
- For the Developer or Starter plans, follow these [instructions](#for-dbt-developer-and-starter-plans).
```

> - The Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan, jump ahead to these [instructions](#for-the-dbt-enterprise-plans).

Author: ```suggestion
- For the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan, follow these [instructions](#for-the-dbt-enterprise-plans).
```

> - For the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan, follow these [instructions](#for-the-dbt-enterprise-plans).

Reviewer: For consistency
```suggestion
- For the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plans, follow these [instructions](#for-the-dbt-enterprise-plans).
```

## For dbt Developer and Starter plans

> Before you can work with GitLab repositories in <Constant name="dbt" />, you’ll need to connect your GitLab account to your user profile. This allows <Constant name="dbt" /> to authenticate your actions when interacting with Git repositories. Make sure to read the [Requirements and limitations](#requirements-and-limitations) of the Starter and Developer plans before you connect your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can work with GitLab repositories in <Constant name="dbt" />, you’ll need to connect your GitLab account to your user profile. This allows <Constant name="dbt" /> to authenticate your actions when interacting with Git repositories. Make sure to read the [requirements and limitations](#requirements-and-limitations) of the Starter and Developer plans before you connect your account.
```

For more detail, GitLab has a [guide for creating a Group Application](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html#group-owned-applications).

To create a group-owned OAuth application in GitLab:
1. In GitLab, navigate to your group settings and select **Applications**.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/gitlab nav.gif" title="GitLab application navigation"/>

2. When creating your group application, enter the following:
    | Field | Value |
    | ------ | ----- |
    | **Name** | <Constant name="dbt" /> |
    | **Redirect URI** | `https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/complete/gitlab` |
    | **Confidential** | ✅ |
    | **Scopes** | ✅ api |
<br />

> 3. For the **Redirect URI** field, replace `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with the [appropriate Access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan.

Reviewer: I think this should not be a separate step. Please see this [comment](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8858#discussion_r3001727943)

4. Click **Save application**. GitLab will generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values remain available even if you close the app screen, so you can return to save them later.

If you're a Business Critical customer using [IP restrictions](/docs/cloud/secure/ip-restrictions), ensure you've added the appropriate GitLab CIDRs to your IP restriction rules, or else the GitLab connection will fail.

### Adding the GitLab OAuth application to dbt

After you've created your GitLab application, add it to <Constant name="dbt" />:

1. In <Constant name="dbt" />, go to **Account settings** > **Integrations**, then expand the GitLab section.
2. Enter the following values:
    | Field | Value |
    | ------ | ----- |
    | **GitLab Instance** | `https://gitlab.com` |
    | **Application ID** | *copy value from GitLab app* |
    | **Secret** | *copy value from GitLab app* |

> If you use a self-hosted GitLab instance, set **GitLab Instance** to your organization’s GitLab hostname (for example, `https://gitlab.yourgreatcompany.com`).

Reviewer: Not yet indented

3. Click **Save**.

> 4. In GitLab, sign in if prompted. Then, when an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In GitLab, sign in if prompted. When an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.
```
Maybe we can apply this to the same step above?

For more detail, GitLab has a [guide for creating a Group Application](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html#group-owned-applications).

To create a group-owned OAuth application in GitLab:
1. In GitLab, navigate to your group settings and select **Applications**.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/gitlab nav.gif" title="GitLab application navigation"/>

2. When creating your group application, enter the following:

> | Field | Value |

Reviewer: Table should be indented so it's under Step 2

| ------ | ----- |
| **Name** | <Constant name="dbt" /> |
| **Redirect URI** | `https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/complete/gitlab` |
| **Confidential** | ✅ |
| **Scopes** | ✅ api |
<br />

> 3. Replace `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with the [appropriate Access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan.

Reviewer: This information is related to line 80 under Step 2, I think this should not be a separate step. Maybe we can make it specific like:

```suggestion
For the **Redirect URI** field, replace `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with the [appropriate Access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan.
```

> 4. Click **Save application**. GitLab will generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values remain available even if you close the app screen, so you can return to copy them later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Save application**. GitLab will generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values remain available even if you close the app screen, so you can return to save them later.
```

<br />
3. Replace `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with the [appropriate Access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan.
4. Click **Save application**. GitLab will generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values remain available even if you close the app screen, so you can return to copy them later.

Replace `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with the [appropriate Access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan.

The application form in GitLab should look as follows when completed:

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/gitlab app.png" title="GitLab group owned application form"/>

Reviewer: Please delete the corresponding image as well

Click **Save application** in GitLab, and GitLab will then generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values will be available even if you close the app screen, so this is not the only chance you have to save them.

If you're a Business Critical customer using [IP restrictions](/docs/cloud/secure/ip-restrictions), ensure you've added the appropriate Gitlab CIDRs to your IP restriction rules, or else the Gitlab connection will fail.
If you're a Business Critical customer using [IP restrictions](/docs/cloud/secure/ip-restrictions), ensure you've added the appropriate GitLab CIDRs to your IP restriction rules, or else the GitLab connection will fail.

### Adding the GitLab OAuth application to dbt
After you've created your GitLab application, you need to provide <Constant name="dbt" /> information about the app. In <Constant name="dbt" />, account admins should navigate to **Account Settings**, click on the **Integrations** tab, and expand the GitLab section.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/GitLab-Navigation.gif" title="Navigating to the GitLab Integration in dbt"/>

Reviewer: Delete image

> 1. In <Constant name="dbt" />, go to **Account settings** → **Integrations**, then expand the GitLab section.

Reviewer: Most of our navigation paths use `>`
```suggestion
1. In <Constant name="dbt" />, go to **Account settings** > **Integrations**, then expand the GitLab section.
```

> If you use a self-hosted GitLab instance, set **GitLab Instance** to your organization’s GitLab hostname (for example, `https://gitlab.yourgreatcompany.com`).

Reviewer: This should be indented so it's under Step 2

> 4. In GitLab, when an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.

Reviewer: The step to sign in to the account was removed here

2. Enter the following values:
    | Field | Value |
    | ------ | ----- |
    | **GitLab Instance** | `https://gitlab.com` |
    | **Application ID** | *copy value from GitLab app* |
    | **Secret** | *copy value from GitLab app* |

| Field | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| **GitLab Instance** | https://gitlab.com |
| **Application ID** | *copy value from GitLab app* |
| **Secret** | *copy value from GitLab app* |
If you use a self-hosted GitLab instance, set **GitLab Instance** to your organization’s GitLab hostname (for example, `https://gitlab.yourgreatcompany.com`).

Note, if you have a special hosted version of GitLab, modify the **GitLab Instance** to use the hostname provided for your organization instead - for example `https://gitlab.yourgreatcompany.com/`.
3. Click **Save**.
4. In GitLab, when an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.

Once the form is complete in <Constant name="dbt" />, click **Save**.

You will then be redirected to GitLab and prompted to sign into your account. GitLab will ask for your explicit authorization:

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/GitLab-Auth.png" title="GitLab Authorization Screen" />

Reviewer: Delete image

> <Constant name="dbt" /> developers on the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan must each connect their GitLab profiles to <Constant name="dbt" />, as every developer's read/write access for the dbt repo is checked in the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Constant name="dbt" /> developers on the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan must each connect their GitLab profiles to <Constant name="dbt" />, as every developer's read/write access for the dbt repo is checked in the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or <Constant name="platform_cli" />.
```

> 3. Scroll down to **Linked accounts**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Go to **Linked accounts**.
```

<Constant name="dbt" /> developers on the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan must each connect their GitLab profiles to <Constant name="dbt" />, as every developer's read / write access for the dbt repo is checked in the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI.

To connect a personal GitLab account:
<Constant name="dbt" /> developers on the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan must each connect their GitLab profiles to <Constant name="dbt" />, as every developer's read/write access for the dbt repo is checked in the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or <Constant name="dbt" /> CLI.

1. From <Constant name="dbt" />, click on your account name in the left side menu and select **Account settings**.
To connect a personal GitLab account:

1. From <Constant name="dbt" />, click on your account name in the left-side menu and select **Account settings**.
2. Select **Personal profile** under the **Your profile** section.

3. Scroll down to **Linked accounts**.

If your GitLab account is not connected, you’ll see "No connected account". Select **Link** to begin the setup process. You’ll be redirected to GitLab, and asked to authorize <Constant name="dbt" /> in a grant screen.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/GitLab-Auth.png" title="Authorizing the dbt app for developers" />

Reviewer: Delete image

    If you use a self-hosted GitLab instance, set **GitLab Instance** to your organization’s GitLab hostname (for example, `https://gitlab.yourgreatcompany.com`).

3. Click **Save**.
4. You will then be redirected to GitLab and prompted to sign in.
5. When an authorization prompt appears, select the option to authorize <Constant name="dbt" />.

After you authorize the request, you’ll be redirected back to <Constant name="dbt" />. Your integration is now ready for developers on your team to [personally authenticate with GitLab](#personally-authenticating-with-gitlab).

### Personally authenticating with GitLab

<Constant name="dbt" /> developers on the Enterprise or Enterprise+ plan must each connect their GitLab profiles to <Constant name="dbt" />, as every developer's read/write access for the dbt repo is checked in the <Constant name="studio_ide" /> or <Constant name="platform_cli" />.

To connect a personal GitLab account:

1. From <Constant name="dbt" />, click on your account name in the left-side menu and select **Account settings**.
2. Select **Personal profile** under the **Your profile** section.
3. Go to **Linked accounts**.

> 4. If your GitLab account is not connected, you’ll see "No connected account". Select **Link** to begin the setup process.

Reviewer: Hey Nat, is there a reason the language used in lines 118-119 is different from line 37? Since they have the same idea (sign in if prompted, authorize dbt), I wonder if it would make sense to make the language consistent.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/gitlab app.png" title="GitLab group owned application form"/>

Reviewer: This screenshot still uses `dbt Cloud`. Maybe we can remove this as well since the gif above already shows the interface?

> Click **Save application** in GitLab, and GitLab will then generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values remain available if you close the app screen, so you can return to copy them later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Save application** in GitLab, and GitLab will then generate an **Application ID** and **Secret**. These values remain available even if you close the app screen, so you can return to save them later.
```

If you're a Business Critical customer using [IP restrictions](/docs/cloud/secure/ip-restrictions), ensure you've added the appropriate GitLab CIDRs to your IP restriction rules, or else the GitLab connection will fail.

> ### Adding the GitLab OAuth application to dbt

Reviewer: I suggest we also use numbered steps for the actions required in this section.

After you've created your GitLab application, you need to provide <Constant name="dbt" /> information about the app. In <Constant name="dbt" />, account admins should navigate to **Account Settings**, click on the **Integrations** tab, and expand the GitLab section.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-gitlab/GitLab-Navigation.png" width="100%" title="Navigating to the GitLab Integration in dbt" />

Reviewer: The account name is visible in this screenshot, please redact this or crop the screenshot so the left-side menu is not shown

| **Application ID** | *copy value from GitLab app* |
| **Secret** | *copy value from GitLab app* |

> Note, if you have a special hosted version of GitLab, modify the **GitLab Instance** to use the hostname provided for your organization instead, for example `https://gitlab.yourgreatcompany.com/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note, if you have a special hosted version of GitLab, modify the **GitLab Instance** to use the hostname provided for your organization instead (for example, `https://gitlab.yourgreatcompany.com/`).
```
